Washington Can a debate without many zingers and gotcha moments be interesting and newsworthy?
The answer appears to be yes.
Tuesday night's GOP presidential debate in the nation's capital was short on action, but long on drama.
And the debate, like its 10 predecessors so far this campaign season, will most likely have an impact on the race for the Republican nomination.
Here's what we learned from the showdown:.
Did Gingrich enter danger zone over immigration reform?
: The former House Speaker was having one of his best performances to date, until the issue of immigration reform came up late in the debate.
Newt Gingrich called for a limited amnesty for longtime illegal immigrants.
"I don't see how the party that says it's the party of the family is going to adopt an immigration policy which destroys families which have been here a quarter century," Gingrich said.
"And I am prepared to take the heat for saying let's be humane in enforcing the law without giving them citizenship, but finding a way to give them legality so as not to separate them from their families."
And take heat, he did.
Amnesty is a four-letter word to many in the Republican base.
And the other front-runner in the nomination battle, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, was quick to push back against Gingrich, saying that allowing illegal immigrants to stay as legal citizens would only invite more people to try to do the same.
"People respond to incentives," Romney added.
While Gingrich spokesman R.C. Hammond played down the issue as he was peppered by reporters' questions in the spin room after the debate, the Romney campaign was quick to highlight the controversy.
"I think it's a major difference of opinion between Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich," top Romney adviser Eric Fehrnstrom told reporters.
"Newt Gingrich supported the 1986 amnesty and even though he concedes it was a mistake he's willing to repeat that mistake today by granting amnesty all over again to people who are in the country illegally.
Mitt Romney does not."
Huntsman and Bachmann shine: For the candidates stuck in single digits in national and state polling, the debate offered moments for breakout performances.
And two of the candidates connected.
Jon Huntsman was on his game.
Thanks to a debate that focused heavily on foreign affairs and national security, the former Utah governor and former ambassador to China arguably had his best performance to date.
Huntsman went mano a mano against Romney in arguing for drastic cuts in U.S. military forces in Afghanistan, saying that while he would listen to his military advisers, "at the end of the day, the president of the United States is commander-in-chief."
Rep. Michele Bachmann had her best debate since her first, back in June in New Hampshire.
The congresswoman from Minnesota, who sits on the House Intelligence Committee, got questions in her wheelhouse on national security and international affairs.
Her standout moment may have been her ringing the alarm bell on the instability of Pakistan's nuclear sites.
"They also are one of the most violent, unstable nations that there is.
We have to recognize that 15 of the sites, nuclear sites are available or are potentially penetrable by jihadists," cautioned Bachmann, adding that, "Pakistan is a nation, that it's kind of like 'too nuclear to fail.' "
Ron Paul -- the loneliest man in the GOP: Tuesday's debate was bound to highlight Texas Rep. Ron Paul's lonely antiwar beliefs in a party that's had a hawkish bent for decades.
In that respect, he did not disappoint.
Out of the gate, Paul sparred with Gingrich over the Patriot Act.
Gingrich called on the legislation to be strengthened "because the dangers that are posed are so great."
Paul, who has long opposed the legislation on the grounds that it grants the government powers to investigate American citizens without their knowledge, called the Patriot Act "unpatriotic" because it "undermines our liberty."
Later, Paul broke with his rivals when they said they would side with Israel if it launched an attack on Iran.
And he called humanitarian aid to fight disease in Africa "worthless."
(His argument: Aid money gets scooped up by foreign despots instead of the people who really need it.).
Paul may be in line with the Republican base on matters of spending and debt, but when it comes to foreign policy, he is on an island.
Republicans agree: We love Israel: Tuesday's debate made clear that in the wake of George W. Bush's eight years in office, the Republican Party lacks any sort of cohesive foreign policy vision.
There remains one point of consensus, however: That the United States should do whatever it takes to protect and defend Israel.
With the exception of Paul, the Republican candidates have all taken stridently pro-Israel positions throughout the campaign.
The ante was upped Tuesday by Romney, who made this promise: "If I'm president of the United States, my first trip -- my first foreign trip will be to Israel to show the world we care about that country and that region."
Former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum said he would do the same.
Cain said he would side with Israel if it launched an attack on Iran to disable its nuclear capabilities.
Huntsman went out of his way to praise Israel later, saying this: "Our interest in the Middle East is Israel.
And our interest is to ensure that ... Iran does not go nuclear."
And Bachmann said Obama has undertaken "a doctrine of appeasement" toward Iran.
Paul was the lone voice of dissent, telling the debate crowd that "Israel should take care of themselves."
Herman Cain: The missing man: Was Herman Cain trying to stay under the radar?
After a forceful start where he touted his "targeted identification" airport security screening plan, the businessman, former Godfather's Pizza CEO and radio talk show host seemed to lay low for the rest of the debate.
Domestic policy, aka "9-9-9," is Cain's strong suit, but the debate offered the candidate a chance to improve his foreign policy and national security chops.
Cain didn't seem willing to take up the challenge.
Cain didn't appear to do himself any favors with brief generic answers like "number one, secure the border for real" and "I would first make sure that they had a credible plan for success, clarity of mission and clarity of success."
And rule No. 1 for any candidate at a debate: Get the name of the moderator correct.
Cain initially called CNN's Wolf Blitzer "Blitz."


A Sudanese woman sentenced to die for refusing to renounce her Christianity gave birth to a baby girl in prison Tuesday, her lawyers said.
Meriam Yehya Ibrahim, 27, delivered her baby at a women's prison in Khartoum, but her husband was not allowed to be present for the birth, sources told CNN.
They asked not to be named for safety reasons.
Ibrahim was convicted of apostasy, or the renunciation of faith, about two weeks ago while she was eight months pregnant.
A Sudanese lawyer filed an appeal last week to reverse the verdict by the lower court.
She is in prison with her 20-month-old son, but Sudanese officials have said the toddler is free to leave any time, according to her lawyer, Mohamed Jar Elnabi.
Her husband, Daniel Wani, is a U.S. citizen who uses a wheelchair and "totally depends on her for all details of his life," her lawyer said.
The appeal.
The appeals court in Khartoum will issue a ruling on the case in the next week, but it will first ask the lower court to submit the documents it used to make the ruling, according to her lawyer.
Once that's done, it will issue a case number, he said.
"We will continue checking with the appeals court, but Inshallah (Allah willing) ... the appeals court will reverse the sentence and set her free," he said.
Christian or Muslim?
Ibrahim says her father was a Sudanese Muslim and her mother was Ethiopian Orthodox.
Her father left when she was 6, and she was raised as a Christian.
The court had warned her to renounce her Christianity by May 15, but she held firm to her beliefs.
Sudanese Parliament speaker Fatih Izz Al-Deen said claims that Ibrahim was raised as non-Muslim are untrue.
She was raised in an Islamic environment, and her brother, a Muslim, filed the complaint against her, according to Al-Deen.
The complaint alleges that she went missing for several years, and her family was shocked to find out she married a Christian, according to her lawyer.
However, because her father was Muslim, the courts considered her one too, which would mean her marriage to a non-Muslim man is void.
Attempts to contact Sudan's justice minister and foreign affairs minister for comment were unsuccessful.
100 lashes.
In addition to the death sentence, the court convicted Ibrahim of adultery and sentenced her to 100 lashes.
The Parliament speaker has said the verdict is not final and will go through all the judicial stages to reach the constitutional court.
Worldwide condemnation.
Rights groups and foreign embassies worldwide condemned the verdict.
"The fact that a woman could be sentenced to death for her religious choice, and to flogging for being married to a man of an allegedly different religion, is abhorrent and should never be even considered," said Manar Idriss, Amnesty International's Sudan researcher.
Katherine Perks with the African Centre for Justice and Peace Studies said the verdict goes against Sudan's "own constitution and commitments made under regional and international law."
Foreign embassies in Khartoum, including those of the United States, United Kingdom and Canada, urged the government to reverse course.
In past cases involving pregnant or nursing women, the Sudanese government waited until the mother weaned her child before executing any sentence, said Christian Solidarity Worldwide spokeswoman Kiri Kankhwende.


The captain and three other crew members of the Sewol, the South Korean ferry that sank last month, have been charged with murder, chief prosecutor in the investigation Yang Joon-jin said Thursday.
The captain, Lee Joon-seok, along with the chief engineer, and the first and second mates, could face the death penalty if convicted of the charges.
But it has been nearly two decades since the capital punishment was last carried out in South Korea.
The remaining 11 crew members have been indicted on charges of abandonment and violating a ship safety act.
The prosecutor's office said the captain and three crew members were charged with murder, because they didn't use the ship's facilities at their disposal -- such as life rafts, life vests and announcements to evacuate passengers.
Seven crew members were first to flee the ship, instead of carrying out their responsibility to save the hundreds that remained inside the ferry, the office said.
Passengers were instructed not to move and to stay in place as the ferry listed.
The Sewol ferry sank en route to Jeju Island on April 16, killing 284 people and leaving 20 others still missing.
Most of the passengers were students on a school field trip.
Obstacles in search efforts.
South Korean officials have recovered 242 bodies found inside the ferry and 42 outside the ship.
The maritime police expects search efforts to become more difficult as the currents could strengthen over the next three days.
Operations will be limited, Kim Seok-kyun, head of maritime police, said during a briefing Thursday.
The internal structure of the ship, which has been submerged for a month, is becoming weaker and more prone to collapse.
Authorities are looking into the possibility of cutting into the exterior of the ship to make an entrance using the cranes situated at the accident site.
Conduct during sinking.
On April 16, the order to evacuate ship was never given, prosecutors said.
And none of the crew were prepared to deal with an emergency situation because they had never been trained for such a scenario.
A few days after the incident, Lee initially defended his actions, saying he had not evacuated passengers because the rescue boats had not arrived yet, and the tide was strong, and the water cold.
Footage of the captain in what looks like his underwear hopping into the arms of the rescuer, while hundreds of passengers remained inside the sinking ship, infuriated South Koreans.
Lee had not been at helm of the ferry when it started to sink.
The Sewol disaster caused widespread outrage in South Korea over lax safety standards and the failure to rescue more people as the ship foundered.
Investigators are looking at the overloading, the failure to secure cargo properly, the imbalance of weight on the ferry, and a sudden turn on the ferry as possible reasons for the Sewol's sinking.


This week marks the centenary of the assassination in Sarajevo of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria.
This was a key trigger for the devastating First World War, setting off a chain reaction that saw key European powers, including Germany, Russia and Britain, entering conflict soon after.
One hundred years on, the world has numerous echoes of the early 20th century with a major shift in global power once again taking place.
Whereas Germany, Russia and the United States were key "rising nations" in 1914, power is today shifting from the global North to the South with Asian countries, especially China, primary beneficiaries so far.
And as 100 years ago, geopolitical tensions are mounting as "revisionist nations," including China and Russia, challenge key elements of the U.S.-led international order.
This is partly driven by rising economic power resurrecting nationalism and claims for resources, as witnessed by multiple disputes between China and neighboring countries in the South China Sea for instance.
China's rise.
While much focus in 2014 has so far been on Russia's annexation of Ukraine, the Syrian conflict, and the rise of Islamic extremist group ISIS in Iraq, it is perhaps Asia where most tension and insecurity lie in terms of potential for a great power war.
China's remarkable rise is unsettling the region, and indeed much of the world beyond.
And dangers of miscalculation are growing, in part, because of military build-ups.
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe drew parallels earlier this year between the geopolitical landscape in Asia today and Europe on the eve of war in 1914.
Moreover, Philippine President Benigno Aquino recently compared what he claimed was Beijing's track record of belligerent behavior with German expansionism in the 20th century by openly questioning "at what point do you say, 'enough is enough?'"
Within Asia, potential triggers for a great power conflict include an escalation of tension between Japan, which the United States has a security treaty with, and China.
Another possible flashpoint is Taiwan, again a U.S. ally, which China claims sovereignty over, even though the island has been governed separately since the Chinese civil war in the 1940s.
Blighted decades.
These risks are real and significant.
However, there are key differences today with the world of 1914 which, in the absence of catastrophic miscalculation, makes a major power war unlikely for the foreseeable future.
This is not least because memories of the First and indeed Second World Wars, linger powerfully.
With justification, the First World War was described as the "greatest seminal catastrophe" of the 20th century by U.S. diplomat George Kennan, who would later become the architect for the U.S. Cold War "containment strategy."
Aside from the many millions who died from 1914 to 1918, the war set in chain several developments which blighted the world for decades to come.
These include the emergence of Communism in Russia and -- as numerous historians assert -- the rise of Nazi Germany and the seeds of the Second World War.
Another major difference between now and 1914 is the presence of nuclear weapons which, as during the Cold War, generally serve as a brake on major power conflict.
It is noteworthy here that it is both revisionist nations, including China and Russia, as well as "status-quo powers," such as the United States and France, that possess nuclear arsenals.
A further fundamental change is that, unlike 1914, there is now a dense web of post-war international institutions -- especially the United Nations -- which continue to have significant resilience and legitimacy decades after their creation.
While these bodies are imperfect, and in need of reform, the fact remains that they have generally enabled international security, especially with five key powers (United States, Russia, United Kingdom, China, and France) all on the U.N. Security Council.
Moreover, the relative balance between the two leading powers today is different in 2014 than 1914.
That is, the gap between United States and China is greater today than that between the United Kingdom and Germany 100 years ago.
'American century'.
Indeed, perhaps the biggest consequence of the First World War was the dawn of what has been called the "American Century" in which the United States emerged as the world's most powerful nation.
To be sure, the country has undergone relative decline, and China is forecast to become the largest economy in the world this year based on purchasing power parity data.
However, the United States remains significantly ahead of China on most measures of national strength, including military might, and is likely to enjoy an overall advantage for years.
Indeed, unlike the United Kingdom in the 20th century, there are indications that U.S. power will remain resilient for decades to come in the 21st century, buoyed in part by factors such as the country's "energy revolution," which has far-reaching geopolitical consequences, including from potential energy self-sufficiency.
Taken overall, while another major war cannot be ruled out, the prospect of this for the foreseeable future is not as high as 100 years ago.
The relative global balance of power is different today, partly because of the resilience of U.S. power.
Moreover, nuclear weapons and international institutions, especially the U.N., generally act as a restraining force against major conflict that did not exist in 1914.


Late last month, school officials at Deborah Brown Community School in Tulsa, Oklahoma, sent 7-year-old straight-A student Tiana Parker home crying.
Her offense?
Wearing dreadlocks.
The school's policy at the time said "hairstyles such as dreadlocks, afros, mohawks, and other faddish styles are unacceptable."
Rather than change their daughter's hair to adhere to the school's policies, Tiana's parents, Miranda and Terrance Parker, instead made the brave decision to remove their daughter from the school.
The charter school's board decided Monday night to change its dress code, but when I first learned about the story, and saw Tiana in tears, it reminded me of a time in my life when I yearned to have long, straight flowing hair.
Hair that looked nothing like the hair that grew naturally out of my head.
Hair that my mother would have to pay someone else to create through chemical processing.
Hair that, when it was "done," still didn't look "did" -- at least not like the tresses that garnished the heads of all the little girls that other children and adults named "pretty."
Hair that forever escaped me.
Hair that, in its absence, made me cry.
Whereas I spent most of my youth chasing beauty, at only 7, Tiana and her parents are simply seeking affirmation for a beauty that is the child's own; a beauty that would take me another 17 years to find.
Seeing that precious little brown girl break down and cry in front of news cameras, I became instantly focused on her.
And her spirit.
And her self-reflection.
And I wanted to do something for her.
So I reached out to other women with dreadlocks -- more positively referred to as "locs" -- to create a care package, of sorts, to affirm a little girl's beauty; a digital book of photos and messages from 111 women and girls from all over the country and all over the world, all of whom wear their hair in locs, all of whom want Tiana to know that she and her hair are perfect.
When a 7-year-old, straight-A student is removed from class and told that she cannot go to her school any longer simply because she wears her hair in a culturally specific hairstyle, there is a big chance that her reflection on herself, and perhaps even her culture, will be negatively impacted.
Rather than run the risk that little Tiana might look in the mirror and see something wrong, I wanted to manually, if not emotionally, insert a positive reflection for her, one that I myself didn't get until I was well into my adult years.
It wasn't until I was an adult that I learned about the politics of black beauty.
We live in a society in which normative standards tend to reflect those ideals established by the dominant group.
And in a racialized society such as our own, one in which the white ideal is constantly pedestaled as the ideal against which all other bodies are measured, black bodies are often regarded substandard -- "unacceptable" as is.
For black women, our ability to be perceived as beautiful in this society depends upon our ability to emulate a white ideal for feminine beauty.
The closer our features are to white ones -- straight hair, light skin and aquiline features -- the more likely it is that we will be regarded as beautiful.
So when compared to a white ideal, natural hair is not beautiful, especially not dreadlocks.
But the issue here isn't just one of beauty.
Tiana was not asked to leave her school because her hair was judged "ugly."
She was asked to leave because school officials opined that her hair was "faddish" and "unacceptable."
The problem lies in perspective: On what grounds and on whose terms do we determine what is "acceptable?"
Dreadlocks are rooted in our cultural history and are as old as humanity itself.
Yet Tiana's African-American led school, one chartered by Langston University, a historically black university, didn't view her hairstyle in the truth of its own cultural significance.
And therein lies the issue.
Tiana's story is the one that made the news, but so many young girls question their beauty every single day.
Our girls need constant affirmation.
Girls need to know they are beautiful, even though there are people in this world that would have us believe that natural hair is "ugly" and "nasty."
If they can't pick up a magazine in the checkout line of the grocery store, turn to any page, and see themselves reflected, then we as adults have to provide them that reflection.
And affirmation.
"A Care Package Full of Locs" is one such reflection -- my attempt to begin to ground Tiana and all the little Tianas in their own culture, and in their own norms, and in their own beauty, lest they be forced to compare themselves to others, lest they look in the mirror and find something wrong.
Plus, I just want them all to know that they have an army of sisters, cousins, aunties, mamas, grandmothers and elders all over the world who support them.
I sent the care package to Tiana and her family.
When I spoke to them Sunday, they were extremely thankful for the outpouring of love and support.
And when I asked Tiana how she was feeling, she responded, "Much better.
Thank you."
A few hours later she sent me a text to tell me her message to little girls -- "Believe in yourself."
As I did back in December, after CNN aired its documentary "Who is Black in America?"
and as I do often, I'm calling on everyone to join me in "singing a black girl's song," not only for Tiana, but for all the little girls who could benefit from the affirmation of their beauty and their value.
An intimate weaving of past and present, memory and contemporary, their stories are our stories.
Perhaps if they know that we truly understand, they can be encouraged to see themselves through our eyes; perhaps they will soon be able to see themselves for what they are: Pretty brown girls.
No matter her hair texture, length, color or style, please, in some way, tell a little black girl that she is beautiful today.
And every day.


A week before Congress is expected to finally hear from CIA contractors on the ground in Libya during the deadly Benghazi attacks, a Republican member said it is long overdue the American public learn the truth of "the murky events of September 11, 2012," that left a U.S. ambassador and three other Americans dead.
"We know what the senior people have said but we don't know what the people who were on the ground are going to say and we need to get those answers," Rep. Devin Nunes (R-California) told CNN by phone Wednesday.
In a letter to House Speaker John Boehner sent Wednesday, Nunes said if questions remain unanswered or "if some answers differ substantially from the established narrative and timeline of the attack, then it would be warranted to take new measures to complete the investigation and synthesize the information obtained by the Intelligence Committees and other committees investigating the Benghazi attack."
Nunes suggested if that occurs, Congress should consider appointing an independent investigator.
Separately, another Republican, Rep. Frank Wolf of Virginia, has called for a special select committee to investigate Benghazi.
While most of the House leadership has ignored Wolf's call, 178 fellow Republicans have signed his petition for the special committee.
Not one Democrat has signed.
Nunes sits on the powerful House Intelligence Committee which, as CNN first reported, next week is expecting the behind closed-door testimony of three CIA contractors who worked for the intelligence agency when Ambassador Christopher Stevens and the three others were killed.
To date, the only CIA operative on the ground during the attack to testify before the committee has been the No. 2 CIA manager in Libya.
The lack of direct testimony from those on the ground has frustrated a number of congress members who have told CNN they are tired of the Benghazi affair being filtered through the memos prepared by staff and testimony of others who were not in Libya, or were there but have not had the opportunity to give firsthand accounts to elected members.
Nunes outlined the questions he hopes the committee will finally get answers to from witnesses.
Those questions range from why a special State Department-led counterterrorism team was not dispatched as the assault was ongoing to whether the terrorists responsible have been identified but administration officials have failed to authorize a capture/kill operation.
'"We need to identify who -- at the level of presidential cabinet secretaries or at the National Security Council (NCS) -- signed off on the decision NOT to dispatch a FEST team to Benghazi and determine the basis of that decision,'' Nunes wrote.
FEST stands for Foreign Emergency Support Teams, interagency response teams sent to provide assistance to ambassadors.
While Nunes writes that it is unlikely the ambassador could have been saved, "the team could have advised, assisted, and coordinated security at the compound and the annex after the attack."
He also wrote it could have aided in the hunt for the perpetrators, noting that the FBI did not reach the area until three weeks after the assault.
Letter raises a series of questions.
The Nunes letter also asserts there still is information lacking or discrepancies on other fronts, including:.
-- Communications during the attack between the Benghazi annex, the State Department compound where the ambassador and his aide and computer security expert Sean Smith were killed and with other U.S. based agencies; Nunes specifically wants to know whether there was chatter on a classified channel to which no committee would have access.
-- Which terrorist groups had the sophistication to secure the coordinates for the deadly mortar hits on the CIA annex, one of which killed former Navy SEALs Glenn Doherty and Tyrone Woods.
-- The need for a full accounting of purchases made in Benghazi "by the State Department and other government agencies in the year prior to the attack."
While Nunes would not elaborate, it has been widely debated on whether the U.S. was involved in a gun-buying mission to be sent to Syrian rebels.
A senior intelligence official last week told CNN there was no such operation.
-- Similarly, Nunes said they need a full accounting of all foreigners who met with officials from the State Department and other agencies in the year prior to the attack.
-- Finally, Nunes raises the issue of "possible witness intimidation," saying the committee should investigate whether members of State Department or any government officials in the United States or on the ground in Benghazi were "asked to sign non-disclosure agreements after the attack or asked to undergo polygraph tests?
If so, why were those requests made?"
he wrote.
CNN has reported some involved in the Benghazi operation have been regularly polygraphed by their employer, the CIA.
The agency and its director, John Brennan, have vehemently denied those on the ground were subjected to retaliatory polygraphs and have said the director has encouraged operatives who wish to speak to Congress to come forward.
The CIA says the CNN report is "patently false."
In its statement to the network, the agency said "not a single CIA officer who was on the ground in Benghazi during the attacks has been subjected to any CIA polygraph intended to discourage them from speaking to Congress or as a retaliation."
A spokesman added, "To date, some of these officers have already spoken to the oversight committees on Benghazi."
Benghazi has remained a continuing thorn for the Obama administration as the Republican-led House has had five different committees investigating the conflicting stories of what triggered the terrorist attack and what some critics charge is an absence of a coherent explanation of what Stevens was doing the night he was killed; the military's failure to launch a rescue mission and the CIA's role in Benghazi for months prior to the attack.
The administration initially and stubbornly for several days insisted the Benghazi attack and the first murder of an American ambassador in more than 30 years was the result of a spontaneous demonstration over an anti-Muslim film.
That was later proven wrong in testimony before the various committees.


I grew up in the early 1960s in an affluent suburb on the East Coast.
Every child I knew went home to a family that looked like mine: a mom at home waiting for us, and a dad who showed up a few hours later in time for dinner.
How tempting it is to remember such households as an ideal and universal norm.
But they were rarely ideal, and they were never universal.
Let's not discuss the stresses that affected those nuclear families.
Let's just talk about the innumerable people who, by virtue of race, background, health or circumstance, could not -- or did not want to -- live in such families.
Instead, they lived in single-parent households, in households with two men or two women, in extended families of grandparents and aunts and grown siblings, in households where multiple adults pooled money and skills to make ends meet, and in many other configurations.
Back then, it never occurred to the people I knew to call those configurations "families."
Today, in a more tolerant era, that old standard of the nuclear family is still encoded in our laws and our tax code, as well as in the antiquated and judgmental phrase "family values."
Among my own circle of acquaintances, I hold many "alternative families" close to my heart:.
-- A man and two women who have been raising their two children together from infancy through high school.
-- Three men who have shared a loving household for nearly 20 years.
-- A "core couple," married for many decades, who have consistently surrounded themselves with long-term, live-in lovers.
-- Two couples who share a duplex and a busy and intermingled sex life.
-- A long-partnered gay man and lesbian woman who together brought a third, lesbian woman into their household because the female half of the pair missed that part of her life.
There are as many configurations of genders, ages and numbers as you can imagine.
These are families as surely as any family you've welcomed into your neighborhood.
They share property, raise children, tend to their homes and communities.
Last month, in a case involving the plural family portrayed on the reality show "Sister Wives," a Nevada judge overturned a ban against cohabitation, enabling consenting adults to form whatever style of household meets their desires and needs.
He refused, however, to overturn the part of the law that banned plural marriages.
Most Americans, when they think of plural marriage, associate it with the one-male, multifemale households of a rebel offshoot of Mormonism and of some contemporary Muslim cultures -- popularly known as "polygamy" (many spouses of both sexes), but more accurately called "polygyny" (many wives).
However, these polygynous marriages represent only a fraction of the ways in which adults form families.
Many people rightly feel some concern about religious polygyny's history of abuse and nonconsent and might feel that anti-plural marriage laws are necessary to prevent such exploitation.
However, strong laws already exist against forcing anyone into sex or marriage of any kind -- vigorous enforcement would surely suffice to protect the unwilling in a plural marriage recognized under the law.
More problematic, of course, are issues such as child custody, inheritance, hospital visitation, etc., when more than two parties are involved.
It is clear that the current legal structure of marriage cannot readily accommodate this problem.
For that reason, the Nevada judge's ruling was probably correct, at least for now.
One solution for the future, though, might be to designate "marriage" as a social institution with no legal standing and to create "civil union" as a legally recognized subtype of business partnership, available to anyone who is willing to make the appropriate commitments.
These civil unions could range from an Ozzie and Harriet nuclear pairing to a multipartner, multigenerational line marriage out of a Robert Heinlein science fiction novel.
They would be required to make agreements about how they would handle the basic functions of family -- caring for children and the elderly, sharing property, ensuring succession, and so on -- and to sign contracts, just as business partners would.
If they also felt the need for the social or religious status of marriage, they could seek out an institution willing to support them in that goal.
I am sure that many marriage equality opponents reading this are shouting "I told you so!"
as their predictions that plural marriage would follow same-sex marriage come nightmarishly true.
Many grew up as I did, in a time and place where the single-wage-earner nuclear family was the unquestioned norm and would like to see their country conform to that unrealistic standard for the rest of history.
But even then, the nuclear family was an uncomfortable fit for many, and an impossible dream for others.
The America in which I want my children and grandchildren to live will make room for all kinds of families, and it will offer the same support and benefits -- legally, financially and socially -- to any family that is based on a core of love, consent and mutual responsibility.
That's what "family values" should really be about.
Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion.
Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.


Poachers threaten to drive the majestic African elephant to the brink of extinction, just as they have the long-persecuted northern white rhino.
But poachers aren't the only culprits.
Very wealthy hunters, mainly from the United States, are picking off elephants in their zeal to bag the biggest tusks and trophies and rise within the ranks of the global trophy hunting fraternity.
There's reason to believe that,as a result of meaningful actions taken by African governments as well as the U.S. government to restrain trophy hunters, this intentional killing may subside.
Two African countries, Botswana and Zambia, have just outlawed trophy hunting.
And the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has temporarily stopped issuing permits for hunters to bring home their elephant trophies from Tanzania and Zimbabwe, where hunting is legal and poorly regulated.
Robert Mugabe, the corrupt strongman of Zimbabwe, has allowed so many natural resources within his country to be looted that it makes perfect sense that he cannot be trusted to provide safeguards for the elephants of his country.
In 2012, the most recent year for which data are available, hunters received permits to import 204 elephant trophies from Zimbabwe and 36 from Tanzania.
Another 261 elephants were shot and killed in Botswana.
Now, thanks to the U.S. import ban and the hunting prohibitions in the two African nations, 500 elephants are likely to live this year -- since hunters won't kill them if they can't bring back the parts.
Unfortunately, hunters can still import trophies from elephants killed in South Africa and Namibia, an inexcusable gap in the regulatory efforts to curb the ivory trade.
It's time that all African nations with elephants join Botswana, Kenya and Zambia in barring trophy hunting.
Elephants are much more valuable to the economies of African nations alive than dead.
An elephant can be watched throughout his lifetime, and there's an enormous and growing pool of ecotourism customers waiting for that thrilling experience.
On the other hand, the creature targeted by the hunter dies after a single bullet tears up his insides, meaning the revenue gained is merely a one shot deal.
What's more, the pool of people who want to kill elephants for fun is tiny and declining.
The pictures and the memories for the ecotourists will last a lifetime, and it's a trip they'll never be ashamed to recount to their grandkids.
Safari Club International, the lobbying arm of the trophy-hunting crowd, seeks to rationalize such actions by saying that the money derived from such hunts will help animals on the ground, in part by stimulating the flow of money into local communities in their range states and helping to fund conservation efforts.
But that twisted logic -- kill them to save them -- does not fit with 21st century reality.
If American trophy hunters were sincere, they could invest their wealth directly to fight illegal killing.
Anti-poaching teams on the ground need help because poachers, often associated with terrorist groups, slaughtered an estimated 22,000 African elephants last year to sell trinkets in the global marketplace.
That number is unsustainable, and wild elephants are plainly in crisis.
Alas, American trophy hunters are out to kill elephants for the same reason as poachers.
They admit it.
Here is what Safari Club International says in its official online record book:.
"An elephant with really good ivory (100 pounds, or 45 kg, per tusk used to be the magic number, though these days 70 pounds, or 32 kg, is considered very good) is generally considered Africa's top hunting trophy.
Trophy quality is determined by the weight and beauty of the tusks."
I ask myself: Would a poacher put it any differently?
Against tremendous pressure from a small cadre of hunters and others who want to trade in ivory, including the folks at Safari Club International, the United States has taken strong steps against the trade in ivory goods.
In February, the Obama administration took aim at poachers by further tightening restrictions on this trade within America's borders.
After China, America is the world's largest market for ivory products.
The United States and the rest of the world need to do more -- and quickly.
At a time when we ask poor Africans to stop killing elephants to trade in ivory trinkets, is it too much to ask rich Americans to stop killing elephants for trade in trophies for display in their homes?
Good heavens, isn't this so obvious?
Several members of Congress are trying to pressure the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to lift its recently imposed import restrictions on elephant trophies from Tanzania and Zimbabwe.
The Obama administration should reject this lobbying effort.
Crass displays of hunting conquests shouldn't come by depriving our world of one of the grandest creatures to leave its footprints on the savannahs and in the forests of Africa.
Read CNNOpinion's new Flipboard magazine.
